docs/mkdocs/docs/sdk-docs.md, before:

# SDK Documentation

This is the documentation for Whitebox's SDK. For an interactive experience, you can expirement with the SDK's <a href="https://github.com/whitebox-ai/whitebox/tree/main/examples/notebooks" class="external-link" target="_blank">Jupyter notebooks</a>.

## Models

**_create_model_**_(name, type, target_column, granularity, labels=None, description="")_

Creates a model in the database. This model works as placeholder for all the actual model's metadata.

| Parameter         | Type             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **name**          | `str`            | The name of the model.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **type**          | `str`            | The model's type. Possible values: `binary`, `multi_class`, `regression`.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **target_column** | `str`            | The name of the target column (y).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **granularity**   | `str`            | The granularity depending on which the inference rows will be grouped by to create the reports. Must be a `str` containing the amount (`int`) and the type (e.g. "1D"). Possible values for granularity type: `T (minutes)`, `H (hours)`, `D (days)`, `W (weeks)`. |
| **labels**        | `Dict[str, int]` | The model's labels. Defaults to `None`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **description**   | `str`            | The model's description. Defaults to an empty string `""`.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

!!! info

    Labels are not applicable ONLY in regression models.

**_get_model_**_(model_id)_

Fetches the model with the specified ID from the database.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

**_delete_model_**_(model_id)_

Deletes the model with the specified ID from the database.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

## Training Datasets

**_log_training_dataset_**_(model_id, non_processed, processed)_

Inserts a set of dataset rows into the database. When the dataset rows are successfully saved, the pipeline for training the model is triggered. Then, the trained model is saved in the `/models/your_model's_id` folder of whitebox's root directory.

| Parameter         | Type           | Description                         |
| ----------------- | -------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **model_id**      | `str`          | The ID of the model.                |
| **non_processed** | `pd.DataFrame` | The non processed training dataset. |
| **processed**     | `pd.DataFrame` | The processed training dataset.     |

!!! info

    The non processed and processed dataframes must have the same length.

## Inferences

**_log_inferences_**_(model_id, non_processed, processed, timestamps, actuals=None)_

Inserts a set of inference rows into the database.

| Parameter         | Type           | Description                                                                         |
| ----------------- | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **model_id**      | `str`          | The ID of the model.                                                                |
| **non_processed** | `pd.DataFrame` | The non processed inferences.                                                       |
| **processed**     | `pd.DataFrame` | The processed inferences.                                                           |
| **timestamps**    | `pd.Series`    | The timestamps for each inference row in the inference dataframes.                  |
| **actuals**       | `pd.Series`    | The actuals for each inference row in the inference dataframes. Defaults to `None`. |

!!! info

    The non processed and processed dataframes along with the timestamps and actuals series must **ALL** have the same length.

**_get_xai_row_**_(inference_row_id)_

Produces an explainability report for a specific inference row.

| Parameter            | Type  | Description                  |
| -------------------- | ----- | ---------------------------- |
| **inference_row_id** | `str` | The ID of the inference row. |

## Monitors

**_create_model_monitor_**_(model_id, name, status, metric, severity, email, feature=None, lower_threshold=None)_

Creates a monitor for a specific metric.

| Parameter           | Type             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------- | ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **model_id**        | `str`            | The ID of the model.                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **name**            | `str`            | The name of the monitor.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| **status**          | `MonitorStatus`  | The status of the monitor. Possible values for `MonitorStatus`: `active`, `inactive`.                                                                                                                     |
| **metric**          | `MonitorMetrics` | The metric that will be monitored. Possible values for `MonitorMetrics`: `accuracy`, `precision`, `recall`, `f1`, `r_square`, `mean_squared_error`, `mean_absolute_error`, `data_drift`, `concept_drift`. |
| **severity**        | `AlertSeverity`  | The severity of the alert the monitor produces. Possible values for `AlertSeverity`: `low`, `mid`, `high`.                                                                                                |
| **email**           | `str`            | The email to which the alert will be sent.                                                                                                                                                                |
| **feature**         | `str`            | The feature to be monitored. Defaults to `None`.                                                                                                                                                          |
| **lower_threshold** | `float`          | The threshold below which an alert will be produced. Defaults to `None`.                                                                                                                                  |

!!! note

    Some metrics like the data drift don't use a threshold so the feature that will be monitored should be inserted. In any case, both `feature` and `lower_threshold` can't be `None` at the same time.

## Metrics

**_get_drifting_metrics_**_(model_id)_

Fetches a model's drifting metric reports.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

**_get_descriptive_statistics_**_(model_id)_

Fetches a model's descriptive statistics reports.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

**_get_performance_metrics_**_(model_id)_

Fetches a model's performance metric reports.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

Commit message:

Add missing endpoints for Monitors: (#156)
* Add missing endpoints for Monitors:

- Update & delete monitor endpoint
- Updated Streamlit to reflect new changes
- New endpoind tests
- Bug fixes in Streamlit
- Chnages in Model update endpoint

* Tests and documentation

docs/mkdocs/docs/sdk-docs.md, after:

# SDK Documentation

This is the documentation for Whitebox's SDK. For an interactive experience, you can expirement with the SDK's <a href="https://github.com/whitebox-ai/whitebox/tree/main/examples/notebooks" class="external-link" target="_blank">Jupyter notebooks</a>.

## Models

**_create_model_**_(name, type, target_column, granularity, labels=None, description="")_

Creates a model in the database. This model works as placeholder for all the actual model's metadata.

| Parameter         | Type             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **name**          | `str`            | The name of the model.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **type**          | `str`            | The model's type. Possible values: `binary`, `multi_class`, `regression`.                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **target_column** | `str`            | The name of the target column (y).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **granularity**   | `str`            | The granularity depending on which the inference rows will be grouped by to create the reports. Must be a `str` containing the amount (`int`) and the type (e.g. "1D"). Possible values for granularity type: `T (minutes)`, `H (hours)`, `D (days)`, `W (weeks)`. |
| **labels**        | `Dict[str, int]` | The model's labels. Defaults to `None`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **description**   | `str`            | The model's description. Defaults to an empty string `""`.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

!!! info

    Labels are not applicable ONLY in regression models.

**_get_model_**_(model_id)_

Fetches the model with the specified ID from the database.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

**_delete_model_**_(model_id)_

Deletes the model with the specified ID from the database.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

## Training Datasets

**_log_training_dataset_**_(model_id, non_processed, processed)_

Inserts a set of dataset rows into the database. When the dataset rows are successfully saved, the pipeline for training the model is triggered. Then, the trained model is saved in the `/models/your_model's_id` folder of whitebox's root directory.

| Parameter         | Type           | Description                         |
| ----------------- | -------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **model_id**      | `str`          | The ID of the model.                |
| **non_processed** | `pd.DataFrame` | The non processed training dataset. |
| **processed**     | `pd.DataFrame` | The processed training dataset.     |

!!! info

    The non processed and processed dataframes must have the same length.

## Inferences

**_log_inferences_**_(model_id, non_processed, processed, timestamps, actuals=None)_

Inserts a set of inference rows into the database.

| Parameter         | Type           | Description                                                                         |
| ----------------- | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **model_id**      | `str`          | The ID of the model.                                                                |
| **non_processed** | `pd.DataFrame` | The non processed inferences.                                                       |
| **processed**     | `pd.DataFrame` | The processed inferences.                                                           |
| **timestamps**    | `pd.Series`    | The timestamps for each inference row in the inference dataframes.                  |
| **actuals**       | `pd.Series`    | The actuals for each inference row in the inference dataframes. Defaults to `None`. |

!!! info

    The non processed and processed dataframes along with the timestamps and actuals series must **ALL** have the same length.

**_get_xai_row_**_(inference_row_id)_

Produces an explainability report for a specific inference row.

| Parameter            | Type  | Description                  |
| -------------------- | ----- | ---------------------------- |
| **inference_row_id** | `str` | The ID of the inference row. |

## Monitors

**_create_model_monitor_**_(model_id, name, status, metric, severity, email, feature=None, lower_threshold=None)_

Creates a monitor for a specific metric.

| Parameter           | Type             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ------------------- | ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **model_id**        | `str`            | The ID of the model.                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **name**            | `str`            | The name of the monitor.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| **status**          | `MonitorStatus`  | The status of the monitor. Possible values for `MonitorStatus`: `active`, `inactive`.                                                                                                                     |
| **metric**          | `MonitorMetrics` | The metric that will be monitored. Possible values for `MonitorMetrics`: `accuracy`, `precision`, `recall`, `f1`, `r_square`, `mean_squared_error`, `mean_absolute_error`, `data_drift`, `concept_drift`. |
| **severity**        | `AlertSeverity`  | The severity of the alert the monitor produces. Possible values for `AlertSeverity`: `low`, `mid`, `high`.                                                                                                |
| **email**           | `str`            | The email to which the alert will be sent.                                                                                                                                                                |
| **feature**         | `str`            | The feature to be monitored. Defaults to `None`.                                                                                                                                                          |
| **lower_threshold** | `float`          | The threshold below which an alert will be produced. Defaults to `None`.                                                                                                                                  |

!!! note

    Some metrics like the data drift don't use a threshold so the feature that will be monitored should be inserted. In any case, both `feature` and `lower_threshold` can't be `None` at the same time.

**_update_model_monitor_**_(model_monitor_id, name=None, status=None, severity=None, email=None, lower_threshold=None)_

Updates a model monitor with a specific ID.

| Parameter            | Type            | Description                                                                                                                    |
| -------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **model_monitor_id** | `str`           | The ID of the model monitor to update.                                                                                         |
| **name**             | `str`           | The name of the monitor. Defaults to `None`.                                                                                   |
| **status**           | `MonitorStatus` | The status of the monitor. Possible values for `MonitorStatus`: `active`, `inactive`. Defaults to `None`.                      |
| **severity**         | `AlertSeverity` | The severity of the alert the monitor produces. Possible values for `AlertSeverity`: `low`, `mid`, `high`. Defaults to `None`. |
| **email**            | `str`           | The email to which the alert will be sent. Defaults to `None`.                                                                 |
| **lower_threshold**  | `float`         | The threshold below which an alert will be produced. Defaults to `None`.                                                       |

**_delete_model_monitor_**_(model_monitor_id)_

Deletes a model monitor with a specific ID.

| Parameter            | Type  | Description                            |
| -------------------- | ----- | -------------------------------------- |
| **model_monitor_id** | `str` | The ID of the model monitor to update. |

## Metrics

**_get_drifting_metrics_**_(model_id)_

Fetches a model's drifting metric reports.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

**_get_descriptive_statistics_**_(model_id)_

Fetches a model's descriptive statistics reports.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |

**_get_performance_metrics_**_(model_id)_

Fetches a model's performance metric reports.

| Parameter    | Type  | Description          |
| ------------ | ----- | -------------------- |
| **model_id** | `str` | The ID of the model. |
